README.md, before:

Administrative scripts for iRedMail, useful if you do not use iRedAdmin. 

To receive help output and what the command does, run a script with the --h parameter. Each script will generate SQL for you to use. These scripts are for a iRedMail installation with an SQL back end, These scripts are for an 
iRedMail installation with a SQL back end, PostgreSQL is what the scripts are tested against.

These scripts were first written to target iRedMail 0.9.9, they will be updated to work with new versions as they are released however if you catch something before me please create an issue and I will address it.

iRedMail version currently targetted: 0.9.9

There are scripts so far to do the following administrative functions:

| Category      | Script                              | What it does                                                                                                                                |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| User accounts |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | create-new-user.sh                  | Creates a new user, with an optional feature of created users having default aliases                                                                                                                               |
|               | remove-user.sh                      | Delete a user                                                                                                                               |
|               | update-account-password.sh          | Update a users password                                                                                                                     |
|               | disable-mail-forwarding.sh          | De-activate a user account                                                                                                                  |
|               | disable-mail-forwarding.sh          | Re-activate a user account                                                                                                                  |
|               | list-active-accounts.sh             | List active user accounts                                                                                                                   |
|               | list-inactive-accounts.sh           | List inactive user accounts                                                                                                                 |
|               | list-all-but-regular-accounts.sh    | Lists all from the forwardings table that are not just regular accounts                                                                     |
|               | enable-pop3-for-user.sh             | Enables pop3 for a user account, enables usage of this protocol                                                                             |
|               | enable-pop3-for-domain.sh           | Enables pop3 for all accounts on a given domain                                                                                             |
|               | enable-imap-for-user.sh             | Enables IMAP for a user account, enables usage of this protocol                                                                             |
|               | disable-pop3-for-user.sh            | Disables pop3 for a user account, prevents usage of this protocol                                                                           |
|               | disable-pop3-for-domain.sh          | Disables pop3 for all accounts on a given domain                                                                                            |
|               | disable-imap-for-user.sh            | Disables IMAP for a user account, prevents usage of this protocol                                                                           |
|               | increase-mailbox-quota.sh           | Increases the mail box quota size for a given user                                                                                          |
| Aliases       |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | create-alias.sh                     | Create an alias                                                                                                                             |
|               | add-user-to-alias.sh                | Add a user to an alias. Multiple users can be added to the same alias, use the script as many times as necessary.                           |
|               | create-alias-policy.sh              | Creates or updates an access policy for an alias to restrict which senders are allowed to send email to this mail alias                     |
|               | remove-alias.sh                     | Remove a given alias                                                                                                                        |
|               | set-alias-active.sh                 | Set an alias as active                                                                                                                      |
|               | set-alias-inactive.sh               | Set an alias as inactive                                                                                                                    |
|               | is-address-an-alias.sh              | Check if a given email address is an alias                                                                                                  |
| Forwarding    |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | list-forwarding.sh                  | List any configured forwards                                                                                                                |
|               | remove-forwarding.sh                | Deletes mail forwarding from a given address to another entered address                                                                     |
|               | add-mail-forward.sh                 | Forward mail from one user account to another                                                                                               |
|               | is-forward-to.sh                    | List if any addresses are set to forward to a given address                                                                                 |
|               | is-forward-from.sh                  | List if any addresses are set to forward fromm a given address                                                                              |
|               | disable-mail-forwarding.sh          | Disables mail forwarding from a given address to another entered address, but do not delete the configured forward                          |
| Domain        |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | update-domain-quota.sh              | Updates the domain wide mailbox quota                                                                                                       |
|               | enable-domain.sh                    | Enables a domain in the database, must exist already                                                                                        |
|               | disable-domain.sh                   | Disables a domain in the database                                                                                                           |
| Misc          |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | list-top-10-mailbox.sh              | List the top 10 mailboxes by size                                                                                                           |
|               | list-largest-to-smallest-mailbox.sh | List mailbox size from largest to smallest                                                                                                  |
|               | update-storagenode.sh               | Mail is located at /var/vmail/vmail1 by default, this script helps change the database value of 'vmail1' to a new value                     |
|               | update-storagebasedirectory.sh      | The base directory for mail is located at /var/vmail by default, this script helps change the database value of '/var/vmail' to a new value |

Commit message:

Added three new scripts: add-domain.sh,remove-domain.sh,create-new-user-bulk.sh, and updated README.

README.md, after:

Administrative scripts for iRedMail, useful if you do not use iRedAdmin. 

Read the examples and usage in each script to understand the parameters to use. Each script will generate SQL for you to use. These scripts are for a iRedMail installation with an SQL back end, specifically PostgreSQL.

There are scripts so far to do the following administrative functions:

| Category      | Script                              | What it does                                                                                                                                |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| User accounts |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | create-new-user.sh                  | Creates a new user, with an optional feature of created users being a part of default aliases												|
|               | create-new-user-bulk.sh             | Creates new users from a CSV file, with an optional feature of created users being a part of default aliases								|                                                                                                              |
|               | remove-user.sh                      | Delete a user                                                                                                                               |
|               | update-account-password.sh          | Update a users password                                                                                                                     |
|               | disable-mail-forwarding.sh          | De-activate a user account                                                                                                                  |
|               | disable-mail-forwarding.sh          | Re-activate a user account                                                                                                                  |
|               | list-active-accounts.sh             | List active user accounts                                                                                                                   |
|               | list-inactive-accounts.sh           | List inactive user accounts                                                                                                                 |
|               | list-all-but-regular-accounts.sh    | Lists all from the forwardings table that are not just regular accounts                                                                     |
|               | enable-pop3-for-user.sh             | Enables pop3 for a user account, enables usage of this protocol                                                                             |
|               | enable-pop3-for-domain.sh           | Enables pop3 for all accounts on a given domain                                                                                             |
|               | enable-imap-for-user.sh             | Enables IMAP for a user account, enables usage of this protocol                                                                             |
|               | disable-pop3-for-user.sh            | Disables pop3 for a user account, prevents usage of this protocol                                                                           |
|               | disable-pop3-for-domain.sh          | Disables pop3 for all accounts on a given domain                                                                                            |
|               | disable-imap-for-user.sh            | Disables IMAP for a user account, prevents usage of this protocol                                                                           |
|               | increase-mailbox-quota.sh           | Increases the mail box quota size for a given user                                                                                          |
| Aliases       |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | create-alias.sh                     | Create an alias                                                                                                                             |
|               | add-user-to-alias.sh                | Add a user to an alias. Multiple users can be added to the same alias, use the script as many times as necessary.                           |
|               | create-alias-policy.sh              | Creates or updates an access policy for an alias to restrict which senders are allowed to send email to this mail alias                     |
|               | remove-alias.sh                     | Remove a given alias                                                                                                                        |
|               | set-alias-active.sh                 | Set an alias as active                                                                                                                      |
|               | set-alias-inactive.sh               | Set an alias as inactive                                                                                                                    |
|               | is-address-an-alias.sh              | Check if a given email address is an alias                                                                                                  |
| Forwarding    |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | list-forwarding.sh                  | List any configured forwards                                                                                                                |
|               | remove-forwarding.sh                | Deletes mail forwarding from a given address to another entered address                                                                     |
|               | add-mail-forward.sh                 | Forward mail from one user account to another                                                                                               |
|               | is-forward-to.sh                    | List if any addresses are set to forward to a given address                                                                                 |
|               | is-forward-from.sh                  | List if any addresses are set to forward fromm a given address                                                                              |
|               | disable-mail-forwarding.sh          | Disables mail forwarding from a given address to another entered address, but do not delete the configured forward                          |
| Domain        |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | add-domain.sh                       | Creates a new domain in the database, after which you can begin creating user accounts in the new domain                                    |
|               | remove-domain.sh                    | Removes a domain from the database																											|
|               | update-domain-quota.sh              | Updates the domain wide mailbox quota                                                                                                       |
|               | enable-domain.sh                    | Enables a domain in the database, must exist already                                                                                        |
|               | disable-domain.sh                   | Disables a domain in the database                                                                                                           |
| Misc          |                                     |                                                                                                                                             |
|               | list-top-10-mailbox.sh              | List the top 10 mailboxes by size                                                                                                           |
|               | list-largest-to-smallest-mailbox.sh | List mailbox size from largest to smallest                                                                                                  |
|               | update-storagenode.sh               | Mail is located at /var/vmail/vmail1 by default, this script helps change the database value of 'vmail1' to a new value                     |
|               | update-storagebasedirectory.sh      | The base directory for mail is located at /var/vmail by default, this script helps change the database value of '/var/vmail' to a new value |
